faq/disclaimers-and-risks.md, before:

# ⚠ Disclaimers and Risks

The statements, proposals, and details contained herein are informational only, and subject to change. Jet Protocol is in early stage development and may need to change dates, details, or the project as a whole based on the protocol, team, legal or regulatory needs, or due to developments of Solana.

Regarding the risks of using Jet Protocol, users must understand the risks of bleeding edge technology and the Solana programs (smart contracts) which allow for decentralized borrowing and lending. Please do your own research before using Jet Protocol and reach out to the community on the Jet forum, Discord, or elsewhere with any questions that are not clarified in these docs.

Risks include liquidation, loss of funds due to stolen private keys, phishing, external fraud and other unforeseen occurrences. This is a not an exhaust list.

Users should follow common best practice for security and conduct their own due diligence. All code in Jet Protocol is novel and experimental. Please use discretion when depositing funds.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-143: add fixed term glossary terms

faq/disclaimers-and-risks.md, after:

# ⚠ Disclaimers and Risks

**Jet Protocol Terms of Service:**&#x20;

[**https://www.jetprotocol.io/legal/terms-of-service**](https://www.jetprotocol.io/legal/terms-of-service)

**Jet Protocol Privacy Policy:**

[**https://www.jetprotocol.io/legal/privacy-policy**](https://www.jetprotocol.io/legal/privacy-policy)

The statements, information, and details contained herein are informational only, and subject to change. Jet Protocol is in development and may need to change dates, details, or the project as a whole based on the protocol, team, legal or regulatory needs, or due to developments of Solana. This is not an exhaustive list.

Regarding the risks of using Jet Protocol, users must understand the risks of bleeding edge technology and the Solana programs (smart contracts) which allow for decentralized borrowing and lending, which may include off-chain services that are not technically Solana based, for example the UI of the application or the data services involved. Please do your own research before using Jet Protocol and reach out to the community on the Jet forum, Discord, or elsewhere with any questions that are not clarified in these docs.

Risks include liquidation, loss of funds due to stolen private keys, phishing, external fraud and other unforeseen occurrences. This is a not an exhaustive list.

Users should follow common best practice for security and conduct their own due diligence. All code in Jet Protocol is novel and experimental. Please use discretion when depositing funds.

_**Please Note, use of the**_ [_**Jet Protocol App**_](https://app.jetprotocol.io/) _**is subject to acceptance of the**_ [_**Terms of Service**_](https://www.jetprotocol.io/legal/terms-of-service) _**and**_ [_**Privacy Policy**_](https://www.jetprotocol.io/legal/privacy-policy)_**.**_&#x20;
